# QBSCapstone

This repository contains code from the work I performed for my capstone project in Dartmouth's Quantitative Biomedical Sciences Master's program. In this project, I analyzed the usage of the breast cancer genetic assay Oncotype DX and how it was used the New Hampshire population. I used the New Hampshire State Cancer Registry dataset for this purpose.
I have broken down the code into the different phases of my project. Initially, I was examining the data and performing simple statistical analyses to determine how the data was broken down. Then I performed intensive data wrangling by incorporating the NHSCR data dictionary definitions to uncode various variables and obtain meaningful information from them. I then performed additional simple analyses including tables and figures for a final manuscript. Finally I performed multiple statistical models to determine how the receipt of Oncotype DX is defined in terms of patient and physician level variables, how the recommendation of chemotherapy is defined, how the actual receipt of chemotherapy is defined, and the factors leading to death.
Because this data is healthcare data and HIPAA protected I am unable to provide the raw data. I can point to some public web resources and linking datasets that I used in order to obtain physician level data.
This research was funded in part by
Thank you to my lab mentor Dr. Erika Moen and my other teammates Ronnie Zipkin and Andrew Schaefer. They are also co-authors of this work.
